h1. cljex

p. This project is all about providing examples for the existing API
documentation that can be found via your REPL @(doc name)@, or via
"clojure.org's api":http://clojure.org/api.

h2. Read 'Em!

p. If you're interested in reading the examples locally, simply: 

> @git clone git://github.com/defn/cljex.git@
> @cd cljex/@

and from the command line run:

> @java -jar clojure-examples.jar@.

This will spawn a webserver at @http://localhost:5885@.  Steer your
browser there, and you're off to the races.

p. If you'd rather not go to the trouble, the current progress of the
project can always be viewed at "getclojure.org":http://getclojure.org/

h2. Contributions Very Welcome

p. If you're planning on contributing to the code being used for the
project itself, currently the only requirements for building are:

* "Clojure":http://clojure.org/
* "Compojure":http://github.com/weavejester/compojure/
* "Leiningen":http://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/
* "Pygments":http://pygments.org/

p. If you'd like to contribute documentation, it's very simple.  Under
the @src/@ directory you'll find a @docs/@ directory which contains
textile files.

p. From there you'll find a directory structure with the examples in the
following format:

pre. cljex/
   \-> src/
        \-> docs/
             \-> a/
             |    \-> accessor.textile
             |    |-> ...
             |    |-> ...
             |
             \-> b/
             |    \-> bases.textile
             |    |-> ...
             |    |-> ...
             |
             \-> ...
             \-> ...

p. To contribute an example, simply fork this project on @github@
(where else?), observe the proper *formatting* for examples, and get
down to business.

h2. Formatting

p. The formatting of these textile documents is very
straight-forward.  An example file looks like this:

notextile. <pre>h3. take
<br>
bq. Returns a lazy sequence of the first n items in coll, or all items if
there are fewer than n. ~clojure.core/take~ @([n coll])@
<br>
#begin_code
(take 5 (range 0 10))
;=> (0 1 2 3 4)
#end_code</pre>

p. For many of Clojure's forms there are multiple examples one could
give to flesh out the possibilities and possible use-cases for a
particular form.  The above example documentation is rather sparse,
feel free to embellish where necessary.  The only hard and fast rule
is that code blocks must be delimited by the #begin_code and #end_code
in order to apply syntax highlighting across the whole project
uniformly.  Other than that, feel free to experiment, make
suggestions, etc. 

p. Finally, to see a current online version of the examples submitted
to-date you can check out "getclojure.org":http://getclojure.org/

h2. Building

p. Currently building is a work in progress.  I'll update this as soon
as there's more than a README.textile in the repo, I promise.

